---
title: uRTcmix Function Reference
layout: ref
---

# uRTcmix Function Reference

*October, 2019*

  
  
**void initRTcmix(**int objno**)**

- *objno* -- the number of the RTcmix process being initialized

  Usually used in the Start() method of a game object script, this will
  initialize the RTcmix process associated with *objno*, getting it set
  for use.

  
  
**void runRTcmix(**float \[\] data, int objno, int inputflag**)**

- *data* -- an array containing sound samples to be processed or
  synthesized by the RTcmix engine. Usually this array is 512 left/right
  interleaved samples (256 stereo frames).

- *objno* -- the number of the RTcmix process being used

- *inputflag* -- if this is set to "1" it signals that *data* contains
  input samples to be processed. "0" signals synthesis only by the
  RTcmix engine.

  This function is called once within the OnAudioFilterRead() method in
  a game object script. *data* is passed in from this method.

  
  
**int checkbangRTcmix(**int objno**)**

- *objno* -- the number of the RTcmix process being used

  Used to check for 'bangs' scheduled inside the RTcmix engine. These
  are scheduled by the MAXBANG() RTcmix instrument. This function also
  runs in the OnAudioFilterRead() method of a game object script. It
  returns "1" if a scheduled 'bang' is present.

  
  
**int checkvalsRTcmix(**out float\[\] farray, int objno**)**

- *farray* -- a declared array that will contain the values generated by
  the MAXMESSAGE() RTcmix instrument at a scheduled time.

- *objno* -- the number of the RTcmix process being used

  This function is also called within the OnAudioFilterRead() method in
  a game object script. The *farray* is filled with the scheduled
  MAXMESSAGE() values.

  It returns the number of values present at the current time to be
  read.

  Here is an example of how these values may be retreived:

  
  
**int void printRTcmix(**int objno**)**

- *objno* -- the number of the RTcmix process being used

  This will cause RTcmix output messages to be printed in the Unity
  console if the RTcmix scorefile command print_on() is set in the
  score. NOTE: At present, this will only work for one *objno* at a
  time. It is called within the game object OnAudioFilerRead() method.

  
  
**void setpfieldRTcmix(**int inlet, float val, int objno**)**

- *inlet* -- the number of the PField inlet (set by the RTcmix scorefile
  command makeconnection()) to be addressed.

- *val* -- the value to be sent into that PField.

- *objno* -- the number of the RTcmix process being used

  Used to dynamically modify parameters of executing RTcmix instruments
  using the PField system. This is called from an interactive method
  outside the OnAudioFilterRead() method in a game object (such as the
  Update() method).

  
  
**String setscorevalsRTcmix(**String s, params float\[\] list**)**

- *s* -- the RTcmix score string containing "\$n" variables to be
  replaced.

- *list* -- the list of values (in numeric order) to be used to replce
  the "\$n" var8iables.

  For RTcmix scores that use the "\$n" (i.e. \$1, \$2, etc.) feature for
  altering RTcmix scores, this will substitute the values listed in the
  function in order for each of the "\$n" variables.

  A string with the substituted values is returned.

  For example, the simple RTcmix score


          WAVETABLE(0, 3.4, $1, $2)

  can be processed like this:


          String score1 = WAVETABLE(0, 3.4, $1, $2)
          String score2 = setscorevalsRTcmix(score1, 20000.0f, 341.0f)

  and the variable *score2* will then contain:


          WAVETABLE(0, 3.4, 20000.0, 341.0)

  and can be sent to the RTcmix engine for synthesis with those values.

  
  
**void SendScore(**String score, int objno**)**

- *score* -- a string containing an RTcmix score to be sent to the
  RTcmix engine for execution.

- *objno* -- the number of the RTcmix process being used

  Upon receupt of the RTcmix *score*, the RTcmix engine will
  synthesis/process sound samples immediately, with time "0" being the
  time that the *score* was sent. This assumes that **initRTcmix()** has
  been called already and that the game object OnAudioFilterRead()
  method is working. Be sure to designate the game object as an "Audio
  Source" in the Unity game editor.

  
  
**void flushScore(**int objno**)**

- *objno* -- the number of the RTcmix process to be flushed.

  This will remove all currently executing and future RTcmix instruments
  and scorefile commands from the RTcmix engine queue.
