standalone/index.md, before:

---
title: Standalone RTcmix
layout: ref
---

# Standalone RTcmix

RTcmix is availble to run as a standalone app on macOS and Windows
and in the command line environments of most Unix-like systems,
including macOS and various flavors of Linux, IRIX, and FreeBSD.
RTcmix is also available to run in Max and Pd via the [rtcmix\~
object](../rtcmix_/index.html) and the [iRTcmix
library](../irtcmix/index.html) is available to use in iOS apps (iPhone,
iPad, iPod Touch).

  

-----

## RTcmix Standalone Apps

John Gibson has created two apps that will let you run RTcmix scores
without having to learn Unix shell commands. They are available to
[download for Mac and PC](https://cecm.indiana.edu/rtcmix/rtcmix.html).

  

-----

## RTcmix on the Command Line

The RTcmix source code lives on GitHub. There are two ways to download
it.

1.  Go to the [RTcmix Releases
    page](https://github.com/RTcmix/RTcmix/releases), and download the
    most recent (or other) release, using the "Source code (zip)" or
    "Source code (tar.gz)" buttons. Unpack this archive, if necessary,
    by double-clicking its icon. This should produce a folder called
    "RTcmix-4.3.1" (or a similar version number). Then move this folder
    into the place where you keep RTcmix source code. The usual place
    for such things is /usr/local/src, but it can be anywhere.  
      
    **-OR-**

2.  Assuming you are conversant with git, navigate to a directory where
    you would like the source code to live, and give this command in the
    shell:
    
        git clone https://github.com/RTcmix/RTcmix

## Compiling RTcmix

In the RTcmix source code directory ("RTcmix/"), type the shell command:

``` 
./configure
```

There are options you may wish to use with the configure command for
your installation -- Perl, Python, X-Windows, fftw-lib, etc. See the
INSTALL file in the "RTcmix/" directory for a discussion of these.

After running the configure command (with any appropriate options), then
type (in that same "RTcmix/" directory):

``` 
make && make install
```

RTcmix should compile, install, and off you go\!

## A Note on the command path

All RTcmix executable commands, including the *CMIX* command, are placed
in the "RTcmix/bin" directory. To access these commands, you can
copy/move them to a directory like "/usr/local/bin" or "/usr/bin". These
directories are probably already on your *command search path*. To see
your command search path, type the command:

``` 
echo $path
```

or

``` 
echo $PATH
```

and you should see a listing of all directories that are searched for
executable commands.

You can also simply add the "RTcmix/bin" directory to your command
search path. You will probably need to edit or create a ".tcshrc: or
".cshrc" or equivalent shell initialization file to do this. An example
of a line in a ".tcshrc" that accomplishes this is:

``` 
set path=(~/bin $path /usr/local/bin /usr/local/src/RTcmix/bin ".")
```

Once you do this, you will need to start a new Terminal or Shell window
(or use the unix *source* command) to reflect the change you have made.
See the documentation for "tcsh" or "csh" or "bash" for more
information.

If all else fails, you can type the whole pathname as a prefix to the
RTcmix executable command you want:

``` 
/usr/local/src/RTcmix/bin/CMIX
/usr/local/src/RTcmix/bin/sfprint somefile.aiff
/usr/local/src/RTcmix/bin/cpspch 8.07 
```

Commit message:

Building top index from Markdown now, completely rewritten as an intro page for new users.  Added new 'embedded' section, to be expanded.  Updated some instrument docs.  Stub for MIDI instrument.

standalone/index.md, after:

---
title: Standalone RTcmix
layout: ref
---

# Standalone RTcmix


-----

## Downloading RTcmix Source

The RTcmix source code lives on GitHub. There are two ways to download
it.

1.  Go to the [RTcmix Releases
    page](https://github.com/RTcmix/RTcmix/releases), and download the
    most recent (or other) release, using the "Source code (zip)" or
    "Source code (tar.gz)" buttons. Unpack this archive, if necessary,
    by double-clicking its icon. This should produce a folder called
    "RTcmix-5.2.2" (or a similar version number). Then move this folder
    into the place where you wish to keep the RTcmix source. The usual place
    for such things is /usr/local/src, or /opt/local/src, but it can be anywhere.  
      
    **-OR-**

2.  Assuming you are conversant with git, navigate to a directory where
    you would like the source code to live, and give this command in the
    shell:
    
        git clone https://github.com/RTcmix/RTcmix

## Configuring RTcmix 

In the RTcmix source code directory ("RTcmix/"), type the shell command:

``` 
./configure
```

There are options you may wish to use with the configure command for
your installation -- Perl, Python, X Windows, fftw-lib, etc. See the
INSTALL file in the top-level RTcmix source directory for a discussion of these.

## Compiling and Installing RTcmix 

After running the configure command (with any appropriate options), then
type (in that same "RTcmix/" directory):

``` 
make && make install
```

This will compile and install:

- The dynamic **RTcmix** library referenced by the main command-line tools
- The main command-line tool *CMIX*, plus *PCMIX* and *PYCMIX* if you have enabled Perl and/or Python support
- The complete set of loadable dynamic shared objects (DSOs) for the available instruments (see the [load](../reference/scorefile/load.html) command)
- A number of utility commands for examining and playing soundfiles, etc.
- On MacOS X, several helper apps used for visual display of some control functions

## Making the New Executables Visible to Your Shell

All **RTcmix** executable commands, including the *CMIX* command, are placed
in the "RTcmix/bin" directory. To make these commands visible to your shell, you can
copy/move them to a directory like "/usr/local/bin" or "/usr/bin". These
directories are probably already on your *command search path*. To see
your command search path, type the command:

``` 
echo $path
```

or

``` 
echo $PATH
```

and you should see a listing of all directories that are searched for
executable commands.

You can also add the "<PATH TO YOUR RTcmix DIRECTORY>/bin" directory to your command
search path. You will probably need to edit or create a ".tcshrc: or
".cshrc" or equivalent shell initialization file to do this. An example
of a line in a ".tcshrc" that accomplishes this is:

``` 
set path=(~/bin $path /usr/local/bin /usr/local/src/RTcmix/bin ".")
```

Once you do this, you will need to start a new Terminal or Shell window
(or use the unix *source* command) to reflect the change you have made.
See the documentation for "tcsh" or "csh" or "bash" for more
information.

If all else fails, you can type the whole pathname as a prefix to the
RTcmix executable command you want:

``` 
/usr/local/src/RTcmix/bin/CMIX
/usr/local/src/RTcmix/bin/sfprint somefile.aiff
/usr/local/src/RTcmix/bin/cpspch 8.07 
```
