---
title: makeLFO()
layout: ref
---

## makeLFO

Set up a low-frequency oscillator (LFO) for control
purposes, using a *pfield-handle* connect to an Instrument parameter.

-----

### Synopsis

pfield = **makeLFO**(*"waveform"*, \[*interp\_type*,\] *frequency*,
*amp/min*\[, *max*\])

Parameters inside the \[brackets\] are optional.

-----

### Description

**makeLFO** returns a *pfield-handle* that will deliver data from an
internal low-frequency oscillator (LFO) inside RTcmix for controlling
various Instrument parameters perdiodically. The waveform used is
deteremined by the *"waveform"* argument, with the frequency (in Hz) set
by the *frequency* argument. There is no real upper bound on the 'low
frequency' used, but practically the upper limit is constrained by the
control reset rate (see the [reset](reset.html) scorefile command for a
discussion of this rate). Typically LFOs operate beyond the lower bound
of human pitch-perception, below 20-25 Hz. Much higher rates can be used
for various modulation effects (AM, FM, etc.) but using a PField with a
high control rate to do this is rather inefficient. RTcmix provides a
number of Instruments for performing these kinds of audio-modulation
operations (see the [FMINST](../instruments/FMINST.html),
[AMINST](../instruments/AMINST.html), [AM](../instruments/AM.html) and
[WIGGLE](../instruments/WIGGLE.html) Instruments, for example). The LFO
will produce periodic values ranging from *+amp* to *-amp*, or *min* to
*max*. The optional *interp\_type* specifier can change how values are
delivered from the internal waveform table, in the same way that the
*"interp"* optional specifier in the
[maketable](maketable.html#item_optional_specifiers) command does. The
active control rate (set via [control\_rate](reset.html)) must be the
same for makeLFO and the instrument that uses the LFO.

Many of the arguments for **makeLFO** may themselves also be
pfield-handles.

-----

### Arguments

  - *waveform*  
      
    This string value (i.e., enclosed in "double quotes" in the
    scorefile) determines the kind of waveform used by the LFO to
    generate periodic values. The *waveform* argument can also be a
    table-handle referring to a waveform created by the
    [maketable](maketable.html) command.
    
    The following waveforms may be specified by a string argument for
    *waveform*:
    
      - *"sine"* &mdash; sine wave  
          
      - *"saw"* &mdash; sawtooth waveform, ramping down  
          
      - *"sawX"* &mdash; sawtooth waveform, like *saw* only using the first
        *X* harmonics  
          
      - *"sawup"* &mdash; sawtooth waveform, ramping up  
          
      - *"sawdown"* &mdash; sawtooth waveform, ramping down (identical to
        *saw*)  
          
      - *"square"* &mdash; square wave  
          
      - *"squareX"* &mdash; square waveform, like *square* only using the
        first *X* harmonics  
          
      - *"tri"* &mdash; triangle wave  
          
      - *"triX"* &mdash; triangle waveform, like *tri* only using the first
        *X* harmonics  
          
      - *"buzz"* &mdash; pulse waveform  
          
      - *"buzzX"* &mdash; pulse waveform, like *buzz* only using the first
        *X* harmonics

  - *interp\_type*  

    This optional string argument can be either *"interp"* or *"nointerp"*.
    *"nointerp"* means that when data is read from the LFO waveform, any
    requests for fractional indices into the wavetable will be "rounded
    down" (truncated) to the next-lowest table value. *"interp"* will apply
    a linear interpolation scheme for fractional values between two table
    elements. *"interp"* is the default setting.

  - *frequency*  

    The frequency (in Hz) used for the LFO. This should be less than the
    [reset](reset.html) rate.

  - *amp / min\[, max\]*  

    This sets the range of values that will be generated by the LFO through
    the *pfield-handle*. If a single value is present (*amp*), then the
    values will travel from *+amp* to *-amp*. If two arguments are present,
    the first (*min*) will set the minimum value coming from the LFO, and
    the second (*max*) will set the upper bound.

-----

### Examples

```cpp
   vib = makeLFO("sine", 3.5, 10.0)
   pan = makeLFO("tri", 0.5, 0.0, 1.0)
   wave = maketable("wave", 1000, 1.0, 0.2, 0.1)
   WAVETABLE(0, 3.5, 15000, 478 + vib, pan, wave)
```

This scorefile uses two low-frequency oscillators, one causing a 3.5 Hz
sinusoidal deviation from the 478 Hz base frequency of the
[WAVETABLE](../instruments/WAVETABLE.html) Instrument by +/- 10 Hz
through the *vib pfield-handle*, and the other controlling the stereo
placement via a 0.5 Hz triangle-wave going from a minimum value of 0.0
to a maximum value of 1.0 (the *pan pfield-handle*).

-----

### See Also

[makeconnection](makeconnection.html), [maketable](maketable.html),
[makerandom](makerandom.html), [makefilter](makefilter.html),
[makeconverter](makeconverter.html), [makemonitor](makemonitor.html)
